			Day 11 Assigment

Q.1  What is inheritance? Explain with examples?
Ans.  Inheritance in java is a mechanism in which one object acquires all the properties and behavior of the parent class.Example a bicycle inherit the MountainBike.
	Types of inheritance
          1      Single Inheritance
          2	  Multilevel Inheritance
          3      Multiple Inheritance
          4       Hierarchical Inheritance
          5        Hybrid  Inheritance.

Q.2  Why do we need to use inheritance?
Ans. We need to use inheritance in java
         We can reuse the code from the base class.
        For method overriding.

Q.3  What is the keyword used to achieve Inheritance in Java?
Ans. Extends is the keyword used to achieve inheritance in java.

Q.4   What is the use of the “super” keyword?
Ans. It is use to superclass methods and the access the superclass constructor.

Q.5   How can a sub-class call a constructor of the super class?
Ans. Using super keyword a sub class call a constructor of the super class.
			
Q.6  What is method overriding?
Ans. If sub class has the same method as a declared in the parent class.It is a method overriding.

Q.7 Is multiple inheritance supported in Java?
Ans.Multiple inheritance is not supported java a case where class B extends class A and Class C and both class A and C have the same method display().Now java compiler cannot decide, which display method it should inherit.

Q.8 What is “Dynamic Binding”?
Ans. Dynamic binding in java is concept by which can perform as single action in different ways.Is also known as runtime polymorphism.

Q.9 What is “Overloading resolution”, how it is done?
Ans.The process of compiler trying to resolve the method call from given overloaded method defination is called overloading resolution.	

Q.10 Which keyword is used to prevent inheritance?
Ans. final keyword is used to prevent inheritance.

Q.11 Can a final method be overridden?
Ans.No, for this reason a method must be declared as a final only when we re sure that it is complete.