Day 1, Assignment

1.What do we mean when we say Java is architecture neutral?
Answer : The Code can be complied on many processors, using the java runtime system.
2. What do we mean when we say Java is portable?
Answer : The sizes of primitive data types are Fixed in java unlike C & C++, because of this arithmetic operations gives same result.
3. Do setup of Java on your system, set PATH and JAVA_HOME environment variables? 
Answer : 1.Go to Windows icon.
                 2.Go to Control Panel > System Settings > Environment variable Settings > Click on        PATH and paste your jdk/bin location.
3.To Set JAVA_HOME > new > Enter Variable name : JAVA_HOME >  Enter Values as your jdk folder location.
4. What is a LTS release?
Answer : LTS stands for Long Term Support by java, it’s a version of java which will get free updates and bug fixes and is used for long run cause it changes every 8 year and every 6 month java release its new version but those are not LTS.
5. What is the current version of Java?
Answer :  Current version is Java SE 18 v 18.x.x,March,2022. 
8. What is a Java compiler and what is its function?
Answer : Java Compiler Complies the Java Source code file .java file into binary format knows as byte code which is .class file.
Bytecode is translated into O.S. specific JVM into platform specific machine code
Class loader : in JVM load the binary representation of classes into RAM.
Execution Engine : JVM executes bytecode and generate OS specific machine instructions,these are executed by CPU.
9. What are the main two components of JVM and what are their functions?
Answer :  Bytecode is translated in Operating System specified JVM which is a platform specific machine code.
Bytecode is translated into O.S. specific JVM into platform specific machine code
Class loader : in JVM load the binary representation of classes into RAM.
Execution Engine : JVM executes bytecode and generate OS specific machine instructions,these are executed by CPU
Q.10  What is the difference between JVM, JRE and JDK?
Ans.   The difference between JVM,JRE and JDK  
JVM - Jvm is Java Virtual Machine.Jvm is a engine that provides runtime environment to drive the java code or application.It convert java bytecode into machine language.Jvm is a part of java runtime environment(jre).
JRE-Jre is Java Runtime Enviroment.The software for consumers who want to run java program.
JDK-Jdk is Java Development Kit.The jdk is development enviroment for building application, applets and components using the java programming language.
Q.11 What are Java doc comments?
Ans. Java doc comments are multiline comments that are placed before class,field or method declaration.
Q.12 .What are code comments?
Ans. A programmer readable exaplanation or annotation in the source code of a computer program.
Q.13 What is difference between Method Parameter and Method Arguments?
Ans. Difference between Method Parameter and Method Arguments
Method Parameter - Specifies the variable declared in the method defination.
Method Arguments - Specifies the data passed to the method parameter.
Q. 14   What is a just in time(JIT) compiler how it works?
Ans.  Just in time compiler that improves the perfomance of java application by compiling platform-neutral java bytecode into native machine code at run time.
Q.15 Why the languages have data types?
Ans. To represent diffrent type of data we needed data types.
Q.16 What is the broad 2 categories of data types in Java?
Ans. Two categories of data types 
1  Primitive data types
2  Non-primitive data types
Q.17 What are 4 classification of data types in Java under Premitives?
Ans.  Data type of Four Classification
1  Integer
2 Float Number
3 Character
4 Byte	
Q.18 Why we say that Java is strongly typed language?
Ans. Java is a strongly typed programming language because every variable must be declared with a data type.
Q.19 What are sub-categories of Integer data types also mention the size?
Ans. Sub-categories of integer data  four types
Data Type                           Size				Range
short                                     2 bytes				-32,768 to +32,767
int                                         4 bytes				-2,147,483,6482,147,483,647
Long                                      4 bytes			      -2,147,483,648      2,147,483,647	
byte                                       1 byte                                      -128 to 127

Q.20   Does Java provide Unsigned integers? How do we achieve Unsigned feature in 
Java?
Ans.  Java does not have a datatype for unsigned integers. You can define a long instead of an int if you need to store large values. You can also use a signed integer as if it were unsigned.

Q.21  . How many characters can Unicode-16 accomodate?
Ans. It is 65,536 characters as 16 bit architecture.
Q.22   What two problems Unicode solves?
Ans. Two problems unicode solve
First a particular code value corresponds to different letters in the different encoding schemes.
Second The encoding for language with large character sets have variable length .Some common character are unicoded as single bytes other require two or more bytes.
Q.23 Write five valid and five invalid variable names?
Ans.  Five Valid variable names
	 id,name,address,city,x.
	Five Invalid variable names
	12amit,/amit,int,a~,total#.
	
	