				Assignment
Exception Handling

Q.1 What is an Exception in Java?
Ans. In java exception is an  event in built that disrupts the normal flow of the program.
Q.2 What is the super or base class of all exceptions in Java?    
Ans. The throwable class is the super or base class of all exception in java.
Q.3 What is the super class for error and exception classes in Java?.    
Ans. The throwable class is the super class for error and exception classes.
Q.4 What are the types of exceptions in Java API?   
Ans. There are  two types of exception in java
   1   Check Exception.
   2   Uncheck Exception.   
Q.5  Why does an exception occur in the program?
Ans.  An exception is an event which occurs during the execution of a program that disrupts 	the normal flow of the program instruction.
Q.6   What is exception handling in Java?
Ans.  Exception handling in java one of the effective  means to handle the runtime error so that the regular flow of the application can be preserved.
Q.7 What is exception handler in Java?
Ans. The code that catches the exception thrown by JVM is called exception handler in 	java.  
Q.8 What is the advantage of using exception handling in Java?
Ans. Advantage of using execption handling
1        By this we can identify the type of errors
2        By this we can write the error handling code separately from the normal code.
Q.9  Explain the Java exception hierarchy?
Ans.  All the predefined exception supported by are organized  as subclasses in a hierarchy 	under the throwable class.
Q.10  What does the JVM do when an exception occurs in a program?
Ans.  The jvm is responsible for finding an exception handler to process the exception object.
Q.11  Do checked exceptions occur at compile time?
Ans.  Yes checked exception occur at compile time.
Q.12  .What happens when a runtime exception occurs in a program?
Ans.The java compiler generates an error message and terminates the program abnormally.
Q.13  What are the keywords to handle an exception in Java?  
Ans.   Java exception handling is managed via five keyword
           try,catch,throw,throws,finally.
Q.14  What is try block in Java?
Ans. The try statement allow you to define a block of code to be tested for errors while it is 	being executed.
Q.15  What are the three possible forms of try block?
Ans.  The three possible forms of try block
    1        try-catch -  A try block is always  followed by one or more catch block.
     2        try-finally - A try block followed by a finally block.
     3        try-catch-finally - A try block followed by one or more catch blocks followed by finally 	block.
Q.16  Can we write statements between try block and catch block?
Ans.  No we cannot write statements between try block and catch block.
Q.17  . What is a final block in Java?
Ans. Java finally block is a block used to execute important code such as closing the  	connection, etc.Java finally block is always executed whether an exception is handled  	or not.
Q.18  What is the use of finally block in Java?
Ans. finally block in Java can be used to put "cleanup" code such as closing a file, closing      	connection, etc.
Q.19  In what scenarios or conditions, a finally block will not be executed?
Ans.  When the system.exit() method is called in the try block before the execution of finally 	block,finally block will not be executed.
Q.20 What is the importance of finally block in exception handling?
Ans. You can clean up any resources that are allocated in a try block and you can run code 	even if an expression occurs in the try block.
Q.21   What is the difference between finally block and finalize() method?
Ans.  Finally block is executed as soon as try-catch block is executed .its execution is not   	dependant on the execution .Finalize method is executed just before the object is 	destroyed.
Q.22 . What is "throw" keyword in Java?
Ans.  The throw keyword in Java is used for explicitly throwing a single exception. 
Q.23  How do we throw an exception in Java?
Ans. The throw keyword is used for throwing exception manually in java program.
Q.24 Can we throw multiple exceptions in one throw statement?
Ans.  No we cannot throw multiple exceptions in one throw statement.
Q.25  Can we use throw statement inside static block?
Ans.  we cannot use throw statement inside the static block.
Q.26  Explain the throws clause in Java?
Ans.  The java throws keyword is used to declare an exception.
Q.27  What is the difference between throw and throws in Java?
Ans.  The difference between throw and throws in java 
         The throws keyword is used  to declare which exception can be throw  from a method
          while the throw keywod is used to explicitly throw an exception within a method or    	block or code.
	Throw we are allowed to throw only one exception at a time while we can declare 	multiple exception using throws keyword.
Q.28 . Can we re-throw an Exception in Java?
Ans.  Sometimes we may need to rethrow an exception in java .If a catch block cannot handle 
           the particular exception it has caught  we can rethrow the exception.
Q.29  What is custom or user-defined exception in Java?
Ans.  we can create our own exception that are derived classes of the exception class.creating        	our own exception is known as custom exception.
Q.30   What is a chained exception in java?
Ans.  Chained exception help to identify a situation in which one exception causes another
          exception in an application.
Q.31   What is Throwable in Java?
Ans.   The throwable class is the superclass of all errors and exceptions in java language.
Q.32 What are the methods provided by Throwable class in Java?
Ans.  Java throwable class provides methods  getMessage(),getSuppressed(),getStackTrace(),
           fillInStackTrace(),getLocalizedMessage(),initCause(),getCause(),printStackTrace().
Q.33  What is an error in Java? What are the types of errors in Java programming?
 Ans.  Error represent a problem that cannot be solved.the types of error in java programming
           compile-time error,runtime-error,logical error.
Q.34   What is the difference between error and exception in Java?
Ans.   The difference between error and exception in java
             main difference error cannot be solved and exception can be solve.
Q.35   State the difference between runtime error and syntax error?
Ans. Syntax error are static error that can be detected by the compiler.
           Runtime error are dynamic error that cannot be detected by the compiler.
Q.36  What is the difference between catch block and finally block?
Ans.  The catch block is only executed if an exception is thrown in the try block.
           The finally block is executed always after the try block if an exception is thrown or not.
Q.37  Can a catch or finally block throw an exception?
Ans.  No you cannot throw the exception and also catch it in the same method.
Q.38  Can we throw exceptions explicitly or manually?
Ans. we throw exceptions are explicitly.    	 